hello everyone and welcome to this
week's after effects scripting tutorial
in this one i'm going to show you how to
make a script that searches for
comps and footage inside of multiple
after effects projects
now this is sort of equivalent to a
search and solution if you have visual
studio code or some other more
complicated editing system
and essentially we can look through as
many projects as we want and find all
the compositions
or other items we select so in my case
i'm going to be using the videos folder
of this to gather all of my projects and
it's going to search through
here and grab all of my after effects
projects open them up
find all the compositions and find all
the footage
so if i go ahead and run it you can see
it's going to be opening up a bunch of
compositions and a bunch of projects
here
and at the end it's going to first tell
me all of my comp names that i found
and then all of the footage names from
all of the projects is looked at
so essentially with this project we're
going to be gathering all of our
projects
that we want with a given folder or any
custom way you want
and then we're going to be essentially
going through all the items in each of
those projects
checking if it's a composition or
checking if it's footage
and then we're just going to store all
the names as we go through it
and before we get started just wanted to
remind you down below to hit the thumbs
up button
and the subscribe and bell icon to be
notified of when new videos are coming
out
and of course make sure you join us on
the discord where you can talk about
scripting extensions plugins
and now we have an expression section
for those who are more expression savvy
and the code for this project will be in
the description in the github link where
you can follow us there
as well as on instagram too so let's go
ahead and get started and create a new
javascript
file and get started writing this script
the first thing we're going to need to
do
is basically get our list of projects
so i'm going to create a variable called
projects and then this is going to be
equal to a custom function we're going
to set up called
get all projects and we're going to set
our projects
equal to a folder object dot get files
so we're going to do is give it a path
somewhere like our videos or i could
even use this
aep's folder full of after effects
projects
and we're going to get all of the files
within any folder we want
so inside of these quotes i'll just say
the general path to my videos
and the folder called aeps so we're
going to look at the aep's folder
and get all of the files inside of it
but one thing you might notice
is if we just get all of the files we're
also going to get these folders
and if we were saying the videos folder
i would get all of these other files as
well if i grabbed all of the files
within it
so what i'm actually going to do is
create a custom function called get
all projects and we're going to use
a folder as our inputs and
instead what we're going to do is just
use our folder here
the same folder we wanted to use before
but instead we're going to send it to
this get all projects function
so i'll say get all projects and
put our folder object within that so now
when we go inside the get all projects
function it's going to be bringing in
whatever folder we give it here
we could give it just our videos folder
but in this case i'm going to make it a
little more specific
so now inside of here we're just going
to create a variable called items
and we'll set this equal to our
folder.getfiles
and just like before remember this is
going to give us a list of
all of the files regardless of their
extension or type so now we're going to
do is actually
loop through all the items and basically
filter any ones out that are not an
after effects project
so i'll say 4 var i is equal to 0
starting at the beginning of our items
array
and then while i is less than our
items.length
increment i by one and this will loop
through all of those
files that we just got then we're going
to have a single check
and we're going to check if our item's i
dot
name and what we want to do is slice out
the aep
in the name the reason we don't want to
just check if it has aep in the name
is because there are other types of
files that can be created with aep
in the extension previously when i had
been testing this
i had run into issues where it had log
files which were aep.log
so what we're going to do instead is
just cut out the file extension of those
three
dot aep letters so we're going to say if
items.name.slice
we're going to slice the name and we're
going to slice it from
the length of itself so item.name.length
-4 all the way to the very end of the
string which is items
dot name link so if you take this piece
of footage for example
what we're gonna do is slice the entire
name by the length minus four so
one two three four and then slice
from there to the very end which is
going to give us
the extension itself and we're going to
check if this
entire slice is equal to
aep and if that's the case we know it's
a project
so let's create a variable or an array
to store
all of our projects and we'll just say
aeps
is equal to an empty array and then
every time we find one
we're going to push it and we're going
to push items i
and of course these are not project
items these are file items on our system
and now at the very end we're going to
want to return all of our projects or
our aep's in this case
and now what i'm going to do is alert
our items before we filter it and then
i'm going to
alert our aeps which are essentially our
filtered items
so if i go and change my folder here to
just my videos and run this
we can go ahead and see that we're going
to get all these different file types
first
because we're just getting all of our
items so we have a wav file an mp4
some aap some javascript files etc but
now after we filter it you can see we're
going to be left
with just our after effects projects
everything ending
in aep so that's how we're going to
filter out all of the aep files
you could use the same exact technique
to filter for any other file type
whether it be mp4
or whatever you could get those specific
items yourself so
get rid of these alerts and now we know
that our projects variable
is full of all of the aep files in any
given folder we give it
so that function is working fine now we
need to do
is do a for loop run through all of
these projects
and anytime we find a composition or
footage or in your case whatever piece
of information or item you want
we're going to store the name of that so
i'm going to create a variable called
comps and footage and this is going to
kind of be an array
and just for a naming guide in index
0 is going to be all of our comps and
index 1 of this array is going to be all
of our footage
so anytime we want to call it in the end
if we wanted to say
comps and footage if we wanted to grab
our comp names
we would just do that if we wanted to
grab our footage names we're just going
to do that
so what we're going to now do is create
a function to go into all these projects
and get the comps and footage
so might as well create a function
called get comps
and footage and we're going to give it
our projects
because it needs to know to open those
up and whatnot and then down below we'll
go ahead and define this function get
comps and footage and we're going to
need our project
array here which we can just give it a
different name since
this is going to be a global variable
and we don't want to have any issues
with that
and now like i said we need to loop
through and each time through the loop
for each project
we need to open it up in after effects
so we're going to create a for loop
same as before with our i is equal to
zero the beginning of our project
index array and we'll say for i is less
than our project array.length
increment i by one now to open up the
projects we just need to say
app.open and the file we need to give it
a file object but since we have an array
of these file objects
it's perfect we can just give it project
array i and this will open up each
project
as it reaches it in the for loop another
thing we're going to want to do
is to suppress the dialogs when you open
up a project
occasionally you'll have pop-up windows
perhaps you're missing a font
perhaps there's missing items or broken
expressions
you'll get pop-up messages which will
prevent everything from loading
until you click on ok so we can do is
add a begin
and end suppress dialogues method and
this will suppress
all incoming error messages and allow us
to easily flow
through without any issues so before we
open up the project we're going to say
app.begin suppress dialogs
and at the end we're going to say
app.end
surprise dialogues and we're going to
pass the argument
false because we do not want the error
messages to appear after we're done
if you put true it will then display
everything once it reaches this point
so now inside of this for loop after
we've suppressed our dialogs
what we need to do is now loop through
the project and all the items
so create a second for loop within it
starting with a var
e is equal to one and for e is less than
or equal to
our app.project dot num items
increment e by one and then we're gonna
have two simple checks
the first check is gonna check if the
item we're looking at is a composition
to do that we'll say if app.project item
e
is an instance of a comp item then
that's a composition
and we're going to later want to store
that the other case
is if it's a footage item but instead of
just being able to say is an instance of
say a footage item what we're going to
do is check if it has a file
if the source has a file in our system
then we know it's a piece of footage
that was imported
and can be found locally on our computer
so i'm going to say if app.project.item
e
dot file is valid this means that it has
a file
then we know this is footage and
actually what i should do with my
suppressed dialogues now that i think
about it
should go before the for loop and the
end
should go after everything
and then now that we have our checks to
see if this is a composition
and to see if this is a file what we're
going to do is create two variables
one called our comp names
and another called our footage names
and again we're going to be storing the
names of both of these types of items
because we can't just store the objects
we can only contain an item in the
project panel as long as that project is
open
so once we load up the next project
those become invalid
so that's the reason we're grabbing the
names so if we
find a composition we're going to say
comp names.push
app.project.iteme.name
and then same thing if we find a piece
of footage we'll take our footage names
and push the name of our item then
lastly we need to return
the two values and remember we have this
setup to be an array
and the first index is our composition
names and the second is our footage
names so i'm going to say return
and an array the first index will be
comp names and the second footage names
so now everything should be working
unless i've made some kind of mistake
so what i'm going to do is first grab
alert our comps and footage
the comps and then alert our footage and
then
now we have all of our aep folders this
might be a lot more
projects to open up so let's just run it
and you can see it's opening projects
even with all these missing items that
are appearing no problem
and it looks like we're getting an error
here
with one of our items so just to
troubleshoot this real quick what i'm
going to do is write line i
and see to what item it gets to and i
want to see if i can also get the name
of the item
that way we know which thing is causing
us to trip up here
alright so now if we go and try and run
it again
we can see how far we get before
everything fails
so it looks like once it gets to the
fifth item it's coming across some
issues
so if i head into my project folder here
and sort everything alphabetically so we
see the same order after effects is
using
get to one we get zero
we got index zero one two three
four five which is having an issue here
with our black body testing project
and i actually know why this is ish is
erroring it's because this project
is has an error in it i had to create an
entirely new project with it because it
had some
effect problems so let's go ahead and
try it again without that file
and see if we get even further
you can see we're making it past index 5
this time
and one issue i appear to be having is
every time i get to a new project
it seems to be asking me to save it
and every time i have to say no and it
seems like it's going to be going
through all the projects doing this
which is a bit of a problem
so the way we're going to get around
this unforeseen issue that was before
this tutorial was not a problem
is we're going to make sure we close and
not open the project
without saving so we can type in do
dot not i believe or do not
we need to find the code that says do
not save the project
so if we head over to the
application object maybe it looks like
we might be able to use the
app.project.close which creates a new
project but clean
and doesn't ask us to save so after
we've opened a
project and we've gone through there
after we're done looking through the
items
we're going to want to close it without
saving the changes
and make sure this is all accurate here
so let's go ahead and run it and see how
it works
and now fingers crossed it seems like
we're not getting those save errors
which is good
um by saying app.project.close
close options do not save the changes it
seems to be going through
not giving us any error messages and not
asking us to save any of the projects
it is maybe possible that as we were
looping through all these projects that
that was somehow making a change in the
memory and that prompts after effects to
say hey
maybe you should save this project
because we've detected something has
changed
so while this is loading i'm just going
to check how many projects total we're
looking at looks like 45
in total so we should be just about
finished here
assuming we don't get any more issues
and now we're going to get our massive
list of all the compositions
and all the footage items found within
these 45 different projects and all we
have to do is click one button to
initiate everything
so we're looking at the names of all of
our compositions here
starting with comp one a bunch of uh
style presets animations
all these type of things from all the
projects we looked at and then we can
also see a full list
of all of our footage so what it would
be the use case of something like this
well let's say you have some
old project files that you need to bring
back up and they're somewhere deep in an
archive
somewhere deep in some project files you
don't know what the names are
maybe you didn't do so good at naming
your after effects projects while doing
work
you could use something like this if you
know what the footage is called if you
know what the
the composition is called this would
allow you to easily find out which
project
everything is located in and even if you
wanted to go the extra mile
this would be able to index all the
items within your project
and basically give you a full list of
this is where the footage is located or
this is where this composition or effect
is found but that's going to do for this
week's video guys i hope you enjoyed
if you did be sure to hit the thumbs up
button hit subscribe and the bell icon
down below
and of course down in the description in
the github link you can get the code
to replicate this yourself and it will
be using the updated
uh do not save changes we added and down
the description as well you can also
check out the link to follow me on
instagram
and get notified of when the videos are
live on there and you can also follow us
on the new discord where we have 75
members currently
talking about scripting extensions
plugins and expressions
and down the description you can also
donate to the three crypto addresses
listed for basic attention token
ethereum or bitcoin but that's gonna do
it for this week's video i hope you
enjoyed we'll see you guys
next time
[Music]
you